add PR template (#25949)
edx/edx-platform: .github/pull_request_template.md

> <!--

Reviewer: Should any of these be checklists instead of bullet points?

Reviewer 2: I didn't see any of them as simple check-offs, since the instructions are asking for information. Perhaps, "[ ] I have written a docstring/readme/adr" could be a check mark, but I'd rather have a link to it.

> <!--

Reviewer: Where do you plan to include a check for PR description and commit message?

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure what you mean by a check? An automated check?

Reviewer: I meant a checkbox. But any other solution is also fine - as a reminder.

Author: I'm not clear what a reminder for commit messages might say. I thought the commit message linting was going to be checked by some kind of automation?

Reviewer 2: For PR title and commits, how about:
```
Please give the pull request a short but descriptive title.
Use [conventional commits](https://www.conventionalcommits.org/) to separate and summarize commits logically.
```
@nasthagiri you said something today about not using Jira issue numbers in the title.  Some of our existing automation relies on this, and people find the short-hand useful, so I'm not sure we should push people away from that habit.

Reviewer: I was under the impression that our existing automation would look at the JIRA numbers in the PR description in addition to the title.  If there's a risk of breaking those, then ok, we can add that later.

Reviewer: +1 to the proposed change for the descriptive title and the conventional commits.

Use this template as a guide. Omit sections that don't apply.

> More details about the template are at https://github.com/edx/open-edx-proposals/pull/180

Reviewer: Can we have the rationale and expected outcomes of the template documented somewhere in the repo itself? Perhaps in a top-level ADR folder.

Reviewer: Relatedly, if one were to measure the impact of having this template, what would the hypotheses be?  I want to ensure we are aligned on the value of this effort (rollout, adopt, future maintenance).

Reviewer: Idea: You can start with an ADR in `edx-platform` for now, since that's where we're rolling this out - and we need a place document this decision. Each repo that chooses to adopt this template, can have their own ADR for the adoption and link to the one in edx-platform. The repo may have their own modifications/additions, which they can capture in their repo-specific ADR.

-->

## Description

> Describe what this pull request changes, and why. Include implications for people using this change.

Reviewer: If we ask folks to document and duplicate the "why" in the PR description, how do we ensure and clarify that the "why" needs to be documented in docstrings and ADRs?  Instead, should we nudge them to document in ADRs and ask them to link to the "why" in the description?

Reviewer 2: The PR description should have the why of the PR as a whole.  ADRs document design decisions made along the way. Most PRs don't have ADRs.  Docstrings should be focused on the specific function/class/module that they document. I don't think there will be much duplication among these three different places.

Reviewer: ADRs document both the decisions and the rationale behind those decisions.

To rephrase my concern: I'd like to remind and encourage folks to adopt ADRs as part of their work. The ADRs provide the historical trace of the changes and their rationale. The adoption of the ADR process is what allows us to not have a central blocking architectural council. Thus, I want to ensure folks do not consider adding docs in PR descriptions as a replacement for ADRs.

Reviewer 2: Do we agree that most PRs will not involve an ADR and that most PRs will want a "why" described?  I wonder if we are starting from different understandings.  I definitely agree that ADR-worthy decisions should be recorded in ADRs, and that there's no need to duplicate that decision process in the PR template.

Reviewer: I agree that many PRs do not need an ADR.
I believe the wording below can be adjusted to address the "nudge" that I'm looking for:

`Reminder that design decisions and their rationales are to be documented in the repo (docstring / ADR), per OEP-19, and can be linked here.`

> Describe what this pull request changes, and why. Include implications for people using this change.

Reviewer: Also, is this a good opportunity to [link to OEP-19](https://open-edx-proposals.readthedocs.io/en/latest/oep-0019-bp-developer-documentation.html#adrs), which discusses what should go in READMEs versus ADRs versus comments.

Author: I added a link per @nedbat's suggestion.

Design decisions should be documented in the repo (docstring / README / ADR) and linked here.

Useful information:
- Which edX user roles will this change impact? Common user roles are "Learner", "Course Author",

> "Developer" and "Admin".

Reviewer: What does "Admin" mean in this context? "Course Admin" and "Django Admin" are very different personas. Maybe include "Operator"?

Also, do we want this to be a structured field that we can parse for and use in automation? Or is this a reminder for folks to include in their description?

Finally, in order to "sell" and "maintain" this info, it would be great to know _why_ we believe this info is necessary to ask people to specify.

Reviewer 2: I've changed it to "Operator".

As I've said, I could use some help expressing the "why" for each piece of information. I would rather not put all the whys into the PR template: they will make it bulkier and harder to navigate.  We have a draft of a document for the reasons and backstory for the information we need from developers: https://github.com/edx/open-edx-proposals/pull/180  Can we add to that document?

Reviewer: Indeed. Scratch my earlier comment about putting the rationale in an ADR.

> - How can it be tested?

Reviewer: "How can it be tested" seems out of place in the "Description" section.

Author: As I noted earlier, I feel that "how can it be tested" is one of the most useful parts of the PR description. I fear that if it is relegated to "Other Information" in a middling bullet it will be omitted regularly. 

If it doesn't belong here, can we elevate it to the ## level?

Reviewer: @pdpinch Can you clarify your position with a reference example of what information you expect from the "how can it be tested" section?  Also, what outcome are you expecting? Faster review cycle? Is the test instructions intended to be short-term just for the review cycle or longer-term for later reference?

Author: I wrote a "Testing instructions" section in the [PR description for this PR](https://github.com/edx/edx-platform/pull/25949#issue-546091511). 

Outcome: "Testing instructions" are primarily intended to speed up the review cycle, avoiding the reviewer wasting time trying to infer the steps to test from the description. Instructions can also be useful for later reference if a future developer is researching regression.

Reviewer 3: I love testing instructions in PRs. It shows the author has thought carefully about the change and gives me a place to start.

Reviewer 3: I do wonder if `How can it be tested` is the best wording. My suggestion might be, `Please provide step-by-step test instructions` (to be explicit that we want this, and what we are looking for)

Reviewer 2: I've moved testing instructions to a top-level section.

- Include screenshots for changes to the UI (ideally, both "before" and "after" screenshots, if applicable).

> - Configuration changes needed.

Reviewer: Instead of having people include config info in the PR description, what if we remind them to annotate their configs and link to the config annotations?  Robert may have a suggestion for this.

Reviewer 2: "Provide links to the description of corresponding configuration changes. Remember to correctly annotate these changes."

> ## Supporting information

Reviewer: Nice. I like how it asks folks to ensure public readability and copy the info, if not.

Link to other information about the change, such as Jira issues, GitHub issues, or Discourse discussions.
Be sure to check they are publicly readable, or if not, repeat the information here.

## Deadline

> "None" if there's no rush, "ASAP" if it's critical, or provide a specific date or event if there is one.

Reviewer: @natabene Can you take a look at this "Deadline" section? Are there other field values for "deadline" that would be useful for OSPR triage?

Also, "ASAP" seems too general. Does that mean minutes/hours/days?

Reviewer 2: I've removed ASAP.

## Other information

Include anything that will help reviewers and consumers of the change.
- Does this change depend on other changes elsewhere?

> - Any special concerns or limitations? Migrations? A11y?

Reviewer: Seems like info about testing could probably go in this section.

Reviewer 3: Should we spell out the word `a11y` for developers who may be new to the concept of accessibility?

Reviewer 3: @nasthagiri I'm not sure I agree that `Testing` should be nested under `Other Information`. I think testing is very important to have thought through and spell out that having it as a higher-up section makes sense to me.

Reviewer: I'm supportive of us including "Testing" in its own section, assuming we agree on its value.  "Testing" didn't seem to belong in the "Description" section.  @pdpinch has taken a stab at proposing its value in [this comment](https://github.com/edx/edx-platform/pull/25949#discussion_r561082418).

<!--
Use this template as a guide. Omit sections that don't apply. You may link to information rather than copy it.
More details about the template are at https://github.com/edx/open-edx-proposals/pull/180 (link will be updated when that document merges)
-->

## Description

Describe what this pull request changes, and why. Include implications for people using this change.

> Design decisions should be documented in the repo (docstring / README / ADR) and linked here.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Design decisions and their rationales should be be documented in the repo (docstring / ADR), per [OEP-19](https://open-edx-proposals.readthedocs.io/en/latest/oep-0019-bp-developer-documentation.html), and can be linked here.
```

> Design decisions should be documented in the repo (docstring / README / ADR) and linked here.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Design decisions and their rationales should be be documented in the repo (docstring / ADR), per [OEP-19](https://open-edx-proposals.readthedocs.io/en/latest/oep-0019-bp-developer-documentation.html), and can be linked here.
```

> Design decisions and their rationales should be be documented in the repo (docstring / ADR), per [OEP-19](https://open-edx-proposals.readthedocs.io/en/latest/oep-0019-bp-developer-documentation.html), and can be linked here.

Reviewer: Nit: `be be` -> `be`
